Mike Winand that was on the microphone and
describing how they were going to pass a certain
certain law to make such and such legal and this and
that and it was being broadcast to spectators and
everybody. That was fun and of course Mardi Gras if
you as an RV is an interesting it's the wildest time
it's it's not carnival and all that mess and
staying on aircraft carrier but it was the Mardi
Gras Day parade and fighting the drunks in New
Orleans and it was the physical hand-to-hand
combat of getting through the streets of New
Orleans we had one drunk that fell into our ranks
hit slid off one guy turned around and we were told
to hit them and get them out of our ranks And I didn't
know what else to do, and this guy was kind of
staggering and swinging at another guy, and so I
hit him over the head with my rifle, and he just fell
to the ground, and our platoon just marched right
over him. And I guess he's still there. I don't know
what happened to him. Now, how did you all get to
Austin and to New Orleans? Personal car. You just
got there, however. Show up, be there, here's
where we are. And you were expected to pay the, you,
the RVs were to pay the car expense. Absolutely.
You're on your own. Where did you spend the night?
We stayed on the aircraft carrier Lexington,
which was docked at Bienville Street Wharf. And we
got there, and this is where they put the Citadel
and VPI and all these little groups. We got to look,
and they had all this huge carrier bay on the first
level with all these cots and the lights are on 24
hours. Wait a minute, this isn't a good deal. So we
poked around the ship until we found the end of the
ship where the anchor comes out was a small room
that would accommodate probably 40 or 50 cots and a
lot quieter and dark. And outside of losing one kid
from the Citadel that fell out the anchor hole when
he was throwing up, that was our place. And so we had
our own place, and we found a separate head that we
could shower and bathe in. Aggies tend to just find
things and make them work, and it worked a whole lot
better. What did you and your buddies think about
those Citadel and VMI? Oh, we visited with them,
and there's always a lot of competition,
whatever. We all go through a lot of the same
things. Our impression was A&M's still a better
place. We got more out of it. I spent a week with the
Student Council on Urban Affairs or whatever, the
SCONA counterpart at the Air Force Academy. And
I'd had a cousin that was wing commander at the Air
Force Academy in 69. And he'd spent a week with me at
A&M. And he said, there's no comparison. What you
have at A&M, we lost 20 years ago. You know, the
hazing and things, the good bull at A&M, this
didn't happen in service academies. They don't
anymore because under the eye of Congress and any
complaint to somebody's mommy, and you've got a
congressional investigation.
Meanwhile, back in the vet school, what were some
very meaningful experiences you now realize in
those three years as a vet student? Three full
years. A lot of intense academics, going to school
with people that all are pretty well focused on
what they want to do. And, of course, a lot of them
married, some with kids. This was a new experience
for me. And developing, again, another set of
wonderful friendships that continue to this day,
like Pete and Sue Baden and others.
You start, you find out, especially when you get
into your clinical rotations, that a number of the
veterinarians there have never been in private
practice. Not that private practice is
everything, but that's the majority of students
are going to go. And so you tend to couch a lot of what
you learn with, well, that may or may not be the way
it really is on the outside.
Most of the classes were probably the hardest
class was for our class in that nine trimesters was
Dr. Worsig's toxicology class. And we had two
classmates that were right on the brink of
failing. And so we were kind of, really up in arms
about that as any class would be. And there were a
lot of complaints to the dean and back and forth and
a lot of low grades. And it was a real tense time. And
we showed up for the class that it was all looks like
everything was going to come down. And Dr. Worsig
gets behind the podium and bends down and
disappears for a minute and comes back up with a
catcher's mask and a chest protector on and he said
okay you sons of bitches I'm ready for you and that
kind of broke the ice because after that we
realized he is human and after that we were okay and
the guys didn't fail and we all got out of there and
everything was fine but that was uh it took some
guts on his part to do that and did uh Did those
students that were in danger before that time, did
they deserve to pass? Probably not. And those two
that had trouble, neither one of them were
practicing today. No, so I can now catch that with
nearly 27 years of experience. Clinically, they
just weren't cut out for practicing. Were there
any routines in the preparation years in vet
school, were there any routines that at that time
you all thought might be a little bit out of date?
No, I'm not. We didn't have a lot to gauge it by. Been
a huge technology boost in our profession as there
is in all the health professions. I think a few
things we felt there were other procedures we were
aware of that weren't being performed at the vet
school at the time, especially in large animal
medicine. At that time, they had a much older large
animal clinical staff that have since all gone on
and Many have passed away. Many of them came to the
school because of the drought of the 50s. And that
teaching was antiquated and behind. And we had no
problems with the small animal sector, but some
armed open conflict with some of the large animal
clinicians. But that was probably the only place.
Everything else, we didn't have anything to
compare it to. Did you have anyone that you
gradually developed a relationship with to be a
kind of an advisor? Probably a couple people that I
could visit with, but again, since I was going into
the Air Force, I was so shot in the rear with
importance that I didn't spend a lot of time being
mentored. We were really, this is one of the evils
of the trimester system, it was too intense and too
fast, and that's why they quit it, because there
was a lot of burnout on both sides of the fence. What
did you think you were gonna do after the Air Force?
I thought, you know, there was always private
practice, but didn't know, and I thought at one
time I might be interested in a zoo or an exotic type
practice working for one of the major zoological
gardens, something like that. That was before I
graduated, after I'm in the service for a while. In
fact, I even had a job with the United Nations if I
decided to stay in North Africa. realizing you
want to do that and i really got interested in
making a living in very medicine got interested in
common product clinical practice the As far as you
knew, what was your Air Force duty going to be? As
far as you knew before you got into it. I knew
because I knew where I was going to go, say, six
months before. I'd been told if I got an early
commissioning program, Archie Flowers said, no
problem, you'll get your choice of assignments
because you're signing up three years early. And I
said, great. I want to go to Europe. And they said,
gee, sorry, but there's nothing open in Europe.
But if you volunteer to go to Southeast Asia, then
You know, you can get your choice in a year.
But y'all promised. Well, it doesn't work quite
that way. So I end up volunteering, and I go to
Southeast Asia. And then after I'm there, the same
thing. Well, yeah, but there's nothing open.
Well, I got on a true red phone in the SAC, Advanced
Echelon Targeting Headquarters, down in the
bunker. at NKP Thailand and called and talked to a
veterinarian at a Navy base in North Africa named
Jim Jordan, a Kansas State graduate. And he said,
this is the greatest place in the world. If you like
to travel, if you like the outdoors, if you want to
see the world, the Navy doesn't know what we do.
Come on over. A&M prepared me tremendously well to
deal with the U.S. military. It was like taking
candy from a baby. And we, three years in the
service, I averaged traveling over 90 days a year
around the world. All right. Were you really
working in public health? No. I was doing, unlike
most veterinarians, I did not have hardly any
public health responsibility. I did clinical
practice. So I did guard dogs. ran a pet clinic in
Morocco, guard dogs both in Southeast Asia and
Morocco, Southeast Asia, medical civic action,
working with pigs and people and water buffalos in
the villages, doing a lot of human medicine, both
on GIs and Orientals, and wonderful training. No
veterinarians, nobody to mentor me. I was by
myself, and I delivered some babies. Never done it
before. They say, you American doctor. I said,
wrong kind of doctor. Didn't care. So I got a
baptism of fire of a different kind. It was very
maturing. Let's see. Let's come back to the
campus. You were in vet school when Mr. Rudder
dies. Right. What did, how did you and your buddies
hear about it? What did you all think? It was
announced at Morning Chow, all of our
announcements, and I didn't know him, but I knew a
lot about him. I'd seen him, but, you know, seen his
old bulldog wandering the campus and stuff, but,
you know, you... What image did he have with you and
your friends? Oh, about like John Wayne, I guess.
And a lot of respect because, and I keep going back
to this, but this is 1968, 1969. It was a tough time
in America because of the Vietnam War. And we felt,
we're in the Corps of Cadets, you know, we're
different than the rest of the college campuses
for many reasons. And Earl Rutter never caved,
never changed. Quality was there, he was a neat
guy, and yeah, it was, we didn't know him
personally, but he was our leader. And did you go to
the memorial service? I did, went through the
rotunda there. I was not, the RVs were the honor
guard there, and I was a sophomore, was not a Ross
volunteer at the time, but I remember seeing
Lyndon Johnson. Politically, I didn't care for
him at all, but I thought, you know, it's a pretty
big, Must have been a big man if you've got the
President of the United States coming to visit.
Yeah, that's right. He was President. He was
President at the time. And all the others. This is
not part of the interview to record. Guess how old
Earl Rudder was when he died? I have absolutely no
idea. One month short of his 60th birthday, and
since he was a reserve officer, he did not qualify
for veterans benefits. And even Olin Teague, his
classmate, who was chairman of the House Veterans
Affairs Committee, could not get an exception
made for him. Amazing. You see, I'll be 70 next
month. 60 is fairly young, I think. Oh, yeah. But by
today's standards, he, and so Mrs. Rutter doesn't
get I saw her at Rick Perry's swearing-in. Don't
know her. She was in the company of two cadets and a
pleasant lady. That's a shame. It really is.
That's a travesty. Oh, yes. He did a splendid job.
All right. Did you and your buddies, did you all
have any image of Jack Williams when he becomes the
president in the fall of 1970? Wasn't the same kind
of guy. Wasn't cut from the same bolt. I don't
really know somebody. I just remember calling him
Smiling Jack. He was president, I guess for, I
can't remember how many years. Six. Six years.
Okay, about right. And my parents were Aggie
Parents of the Year. around 76, 77, somewhere in
there, but I believe he was still here. Yeah,
because he becomes the system chancellor in 77.
Okay. And Jarvis Miller becomes the president. He
was still there because my folks were here. They
met you. I'm sure you don't remember Dorothy
Claytor, but we met at a little social as part of
their weekend, parents' weekend. I was just
gotten out of the service, was in practice in
Pleasanton, and littlest brother Dan was
probably junior in the Corps at the time, and We had
all sent our letters in, and with four boys in the
Corps, mom and dad were Aggie Parents of the Year,
so kind of a neat deal. See, I tell people, only Earl
Rudder could have made the changes he made. I don't
think anybody else is strong enough, to be honest.
I understand enough about politics and about
leadership that it took somebody that had an
ironclad will and the intestinal fortitude to
stand up and say, this is how we're going to do it,
boys. Then he lays the foundation, strong and
firm. Then Jack Williams academically builds on
it. And Rutter couldn't have done what Williams
did, but vice versa. No, and I don't think any one
man could ever have done it all. There's no way. But
the school, they don't work that way. And look at
this place today. I walked around here seeing new
things, and some things don't change, but a lot of
things do. Oh, yes. Back in your student days, you
were in the Corps and all that. Tell me about when
you got that ring. I remember going by, I believe it
was the Koch Building. I believe that's where you
paid your money, and I don't... Do you remember
what it cost?
I think it was $180, but I don't... That figure,
that may be wrong. It's way less than what kids pay
for. I don't know what they cost today. Do you know
what they... $300 or $400, I don't know. And I
remember putting it on and thinking... Gee, I just
got here. And now, you know, I'm a senior. And this
ring has literally been around the world. I was
telling Kyle I was in a bar at the Oberoi Hilton
Hotel in New Delhi, India in 1975. And two drinks
show up, extra visit with a guy. And I said, no, we
didn't order these. And he said, no, that
gentleman did over there. And a guy does like this
and gets up and walks over and Jack's somebody,
class of 54. The guy says, how do you know each
other? He said, we're brothers. And that was it. We
didn't even visit. Just, yeah, you know. And he was
over on some railway construction deal and ran a
deal, but just saw the ring. That's all it took.
Have you ever lost it? Left it in the bathroom in
Vietnam, and
the waiter brought it out to me. Can you imagine?
And I'm one of the few veterinarians who haven't
lost it in a cow. It has gone through linen service
in San Antonio in the khaki pants we wear at the
clinic, and they found it for me at Unifirst, and
they returned it. And that's been it. I'm very
careful. I hope I don't ever do it. When I
interviewed... When I interviewed President
Bowen, I asked him, and he said that when he was a vet
student at Caltech, I believe it was, I mean a
graduate student at Caltech, he's in Europe on a
summer research trip, and he and two German
buddies are on the train going from Vienna to
Venice. And as they're going over the Alps, this
lady is reading a newspaper and turns down and
said, are you from Texas A&M? Well, yes, ma'am. How
did you know? Well, I saw your ring. And he
introduced himself. And she said, well, my name is
Zachary. My husband, HB Zachary, is one of the
biggest construction. And he was much impressed.
Was there a camaraderie built in the vet school
that was at all similar to the camaraderie built in
the Corps? No. No. Although I have friends in vet
school, and it was a fairly close class and fun,
it's just not the same. It's a totally different
experience. Totally different. But there's
enough intensity in vet school that it does bring
you together, and it's genuinely good to see my
practicing colleagues, and some I've stayed very
close to, but it's not the same as the Corps. Were
there some events as a part of the three years in vet
school that are important traditions, important
binders? They would have an annual fish fry with, I
think, seniors and faculty. And then they would
have a get together, can't remember what it was, a
barbecue or something, again, with like freshman
students. A few things like that, that the senior
fish fry, I got in a fight with David Hanselka, one
of the clinicians,
and he ended up biting a chunk out of my elbow, and
I'm not a fighter, but it was just one of those, that
was during our burnout stage with the large animal
practitioners. Outside of a few get-togethers
like that, you had your veterinary wives put
together some socials. Most of those failed
miserably. Were you married by then? No, no, I was
single. I married when I was 30, so I was already
about long since been out of school. But I was well
treated by so many folks. They had an open door to
many of us vet students. I look back on a lot of those
vet wives and living with no money and working hard
and husband going to school. I admire him. Where
did you live after you finished those four
undergraduate years or four core years? Well, I
had the, of course, part of that was in vet school.
So in the summertime, I was at Schumacher Hall and
then back for my senior year in the core. But I'm
still in vet school. And then when I got out of the
core, we lived out until I finished vet school out
On Travis Whedon's country, we used to have the old
dairy and have some rent houses. Travis and Joyce
Whedon, which were just wonderful people. And
they fed us three or four nights out of the week.
They made no money off of our rent. Wonderful
people. And that's where I lived out in the country
until I got out of vet school. Then immediately
went on active duty and was overseas basically
continually for a little over three and a half
years. And then ended up in Pleasanton in 1976.
Alright, so you, back to traditions for a second.
You go through, at the end of your third year, you go
through final review and become, in one way, a
senior in the Corps. Right. Tell me about what it
was like to put on those senior boots. That was, and
that's another real special time. Obviously,
you've talked to others, but you put them on for the
first time. I got my boots made at Economy Boot and
Shoe in San Antonio, Texas. Went down, a group of us
went down, got them ordered, and they were a lot
cheaper than Hollick's, and that has no bearing on
anything, but it was a trip to San Antonio as
juniors. We got measured, got them made. put them
on for the first time. You beg, borrow, and steal
pants and you buy old, your pants from other
upperclassmen. Never buy anything new if you can
avoid it. How much did your boots cost? Mine were,
at that time I believe, were $90. And now was this
your money or mother and dad's money? This was mine
that I'd saved and got ready to spend it and got a
check in the mail from my dad for the boots and the
spurs. And he said, I didn't go to A&M, but I will,
for everyone of y'all to become seniors in the
Corps, I will buy your boots, which I appreciated
very much.
Put those boots on for the first time, and I
remember Bob Shepard was had been a roommate and my
outfit gave me a room by myself from my junior year
on because I was the only one in vet school and back
then that was a big deal to have a room by yourself
and I probably didn't need it but it was
appreciated but Bob had been one of my sophomore
roommates he was from Hillsboro and he wanted to be
my he said do you have an executive officer and I
said no you're it and In fact, I saw Bob at Rick
Perry's swearing in also. Good friend. Bob is a
pilot for American Airlines. Putting on those
boots for the first time and then walking back,
there is not a bigger feeling in the world. You talk
about being shot in the rear with importance
because you're finally there. And you're
clunking with those boots and you're feeling
pretty good. And it's a neat deal. Did family come
to find a review? They did. They did. My folks made
every...
to my knowledge, every final review that I was in,
but for certain that's the only one I remember was
that one and then of course the next year also, the
true final review. All right, now that true final
review as you phrased it, did you go through
commencement then? Yes, I did. I got a degree in
veterinary science. That was just a manufactured
degree because you've done the hours. It's
worthless, but did it and graduated. I want to
graduate in uniform, not in a cap and gown. And that
was good to graduate with my class. Did you and your
buddies do any celebrating that night? No, I don't
think so. I think I did my college. In fact, I know my
folks were here and I had a set of almost surrogate
parents that I'd met through my Colorado days in
the summer, Michael and Nancy Kangurga from
Henderson, Texas, both of them University of
Texas graduates. I'm the first. They knew Jim
Anderson well, but I'm the first Aggie in the Corps
that they'd known well. They had a son that was a
year younger than me that was at SMU. And they came
down to my graduation. And looking back on it, I
really appreciate it. They didn't need to do that.
But they were in many ways like a second set of
parents, because Henderson was a good bit closer
to Midland. And as a vet student and as a senior in
the Corps, I could retreat to Henderson
sometimes. Now, your undergraduate degree was in
G. Raleigh. Where was that veterinary
commencement?
Was it over there also? For some reason, I think it
was. Well, in fact, I know it was. Yes, it was. And I
guess we graduated in August, but there were
others graduating at that time. But it was at G.
Raleigh also. How are you holding up, Kyle? You can
drift out if you need to. We're about done. All
right. I don't have too much more. This is another
editor's note. Sometime about in the early 70s, as
dean of faculties, I was in President Jack
Williams' office one day, and he tossed two
letters at me, each written by the mother of a
student who was scheduled to graduate that
summer. A&M was not having summer graduations at
that time, and these ladies were saying it wasn't
that their sons had to wait until December to
graduate. And both of them had a job that was going
to take them far away. And they asked the question,
why doesn't A&M have a summer commencement? And he
said, what do you think? And we both agreed that
they asked a very good question. Let's try it. And
we both wondered, would anybody show up? And of
course, summer commencement now is as well
attended per person as any other. I'm sure it is.
Sure. And nobody. And that was in 1970? That was in
71, I think. It was pretty early. Because my
commencement was in August of 73, and looking back
on it, yeah, there had to have been, there was other
people besides veterinarians there, that's for
sure. And did you look carefully at the tube, at
what was in your tube, to be sure the diploma was
there? I'm sure I did. I don't recall. But you kind
of, boy, I hope this thing's not empty. As you look
back on your veterinary preparation, is there any
change you now, if you had been in charge then,
based on experience, any change in the
curriculum? Curriculum I probably wouldn't
change. I would
probably specifically add some practice
management courses. Dennis McKernan at LSU is big
on this. However, you can lead a horse to water, but
you can't make him drink. Until the financial
pistol is at your head, you will not pay attention.
So for the practitioner in me, I would say that. But
no. I would probably give even more attention to
internal medicine and surgery. Again, as a
practitioner, because that's what I do. But for
where we were in 1973, we were well educated. And I
didn't realize this until I started dealing with
physicians in Southeast Asia and then in North
Africa, that I'd gotten a darn good education. I
would have, and I'm glad they have gone to a
four-year program instead of the trimester. It
was hard on everybody. There was no time to relax,
was there? No, and there was no time to make any
money. And the financial onus, these veterinary
students are getting out owing, even with time
off, they're owing an average of $44,000 a year,
and that's just the average. All right, again
looking back, to what degree faculty members,
advisors, would you most want to express your
gratitude for what they did during those years?
Who did the best job and how did they do it? Oh, I
think everybody has favorite professors. Dr.
Mike Herron, who's recently retired as an
orthopedist, was a good clinical instructor.
Again, I mentioned Mike Tatum and Gerald Bratton.
What did they do that made the most sense? They
cared about their students. And this is the one
common thread.
you know as an aside you can strike this from memory
but you're still probably my most memorable
professor from undergraduate days because well
because you pushed me and and I learned in your
class and I learned about myself
because I don't remember the names of my other
professors. They were there and they were fine,
but I don't remember them. So you focus on, and it's
the people that you've got something in return.
You didn't just regurgitate, but you were pushed,
you were exhorted, you were cajoled, you were
encouraged, and you were counseled. Did anybody
ever call you in and sort of kick your rear and say,
hey, you can do this better and I'll get with it?
Not to my knowledge. Gee, Wayne Stark did that in
the MSC occasionally with student leaders. He did
some, and I knew Wayne Stark, but I didn't, I can't
think of any. I can sure remember a seventh grade
teacher, Doris Watson, did that to me one day, and
I'll never forget that. In vet school, as you look
back, do you think you did about as well as you could
have done? Did you work about as hard as you could
have? No. No, I could have worked a whole lot
harder, but I was in vet school, It was obvious I
wasn't going to get, I wasn't going to flunk out and
I wasn't going to leave and I was young and single
and although, you know, A&M wasn't the cultural
mecca of the world, it was all I had and I had the
core. So I had, I had a lot of other stuff to do
besides go to vet school. So I balanced, but I did
enough to get by and did what I was interested in,
but looking back on it, probably a little
immature. If I was older, I probably would have
taken more advantage of it. Let's see, one of the
things that we should have asked about earlier,
when you were an undergraduate, were you aware of
the existence of secret fraternities? Now,
Class of 72, I'm not, you know, I mean, we had our, a
group of aardvarks as freshmen, as crowns, as
materials. Wasn't aware of any, and may have been
some, but there weren't any in the Corps that I'm
aware of, and there weren't any others. We didn't
have civilian students. I'm not sure, an
interesting question.
What creates Aggie spirit? What creates the
devotion and feeling? Bonding with other people.
Respect and loyalty for your fellow man. What
encourages that bonding?
An environment where By yourself you can't stand,
but with your buddies you can. Coming together is
one. Are there some events that are important?
Your freshman year in the Corps of Cadets, and this
is, I don't want to hurt anybody's feelings, it's
very difficult to feel a deep Aggie bonding
without being in the Corps. I can't relate to it
because I was never a civilian student as an
undergraduate, but things like bonfire, like
fetal pigs in the mess hall, or like mess hall any
night of the week, you get a certain level of love,
respect, and discipline from a family. And this is
why gang members, this is what they think they're
getting out of their gangs on the streets. I deal
with gang members in Bible studies. The Corps of
Cadets is a different kind of gang, but love,
respect, and discipline in its own way. That's the
central part of the Aggie spirit. Does bonfire
yell practice? Every one of them. Every one of them
add to the final sum, to the quotient. And if you
take bonfire away, you need to replace it with
something else as meaningful. It's more than
cutting down logs and burning them. It's about
bonding together. Stealing foot lockers is not
about theft, but it's about bonding together.